[CI/Build] Per file CUDA Archs (improve wheel size and dev build times) (#8845)
vllm-project/vllm: CMakeLists.txt

    "csrc/mamba/causal_conv1d/causal_conv1d.cu"
    "csrc/quantization/aqlm/gemm_kernels.cu"
    "csrc/quantization/awq/gemm_kernels.cu"
    "csrc/quantization/gguf/gguf_kernel.cu"
    "csrc/custom_all_reduce.cu"
    "csrc/permute_cols.cu"
    "csrc/quantization/cutlass_w8a8/scaled_mm_entry.cu")

  set_gencode_flags_for_srcs(
    SRCS "${VLLM_EXT_SRC}"
    CUDA_ARCHS "${CUDA_ARCHS}")

>   # Only build marlin if we are building for at least some compatible archs
>   # keep building marlin for 9.0 as there are some group sizes and shapes that
>   # are not supported by machete yet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Only build Marlin kernels if we are building for at least some compatible archs.
  # Keep building Marlin for 9.0 as there are some group sizes and shapes that
  # are not supported by Machete yet.
```

  cuda_archs_loose_intersection(MARLIN_ARCHS "8.0;8.6;8.9;9.0" ${CUDA_ARCHS})
  if (MARLIN_ARCHS)
    set(MARLIN_SRCS 
       "csrc/quantization/fp8/fp8_marlin.cu"
       "csrc/quantization/marlin/dense/marlin_cuda_kernel.cu"
       "csrc/quantization/marlin/sparse/marlin_24_cuda_kernel.cu"
       "csrc/quantization/marlin/qqq/marlin_qqq_gemm_kernel.cu"
       "csrc/quantization/gptq_marlin/gptq_marlin.cu"
       "csrc/quantization/gptq_marlin/gptq_marlin_repack.cu"
       "csrc/quantization/gptq_marlin/awq_marlin_repack.cu")
    set_gencode_flags_for_srcs(
      SRCS "${MARLIN_SRCS}"
      CUDA_ARCHS "${MARLIN_ARCHS}")
    list(APPEND VLLM_EXT_SRC "${MARLIN_SRCS}")
    message(STATUS "Building Marlin kernels for archs: ${MARLIN_ARCHS}")
  else()
    message(STATUS "Not building Marlin kernels as no compatible archs found"
                   "in CUDA target architectures")
  endif()

  #

>   # The cutlass_scaled_mm kernels for Hopper (c3x, i.e. CUTLASS 3.x) require
>   # CUDA 12.0 or later (and only works on Hoppper, 9.0/9.0a for now).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # The cutlass_scaled_mm kernels for Hopper (c3x, i.e. CUTLASS 3.x) require
  # CUDA 12.0 or later (and only work on Hopper, 9.0/9.0a for now).
```

  cuda_archs_loose_intersection(SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS "9.0;9.0a" "${CUDA_ARCHS}")
  if(${CMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER 12.0 AND SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS)
    set(SRCS "csrc/quantization/cutlass_w8a8/scaled_mm_c3x.cu")
    set_gencode_flags_for_srcs(
      SRCS "${SRCS}"
      CUDA_ARCHS "${SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS}")
    list(APPEND VLLM_EXT_SRC "${SRCS}")
    list(APPEND VLLM_GPU_FLAGS "-DENABLE_SCALED_MM_C3X=1")
    message(STATUS "Building scaled_mm_c3x for archs: ${SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS}")
  else()
    # clear SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS so the scaled_mm_c2x kernels know we didn't 
    # build any 3x kernels
    set(SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS)
    message(STATUS "Not building scaled_mm_c3x as no compatible archs found "
                   "in CUDA target architectures or CUDA Compiler version is "

>                    "not >= 12.0")

Reviewer: Developers may see this message somewhat frequently, as building with CUDA 11.8 is still fairly common. Could you disambiguate these two cases? I also think it'd be nice to let folks know that they're missing out on the vLLM's cutlass FP8 kernels in this case.

  endif()

  #
  # For the cutlass_scaled_mm kernels we want to build the c2x (CUTLASS 2.x)
  # kernels for the remaining archs that are not already built for 3x.
  cuda_archs_loose_intersection(SCALED_MM_2X_ARCHS 
    "7.5;8.0;8.6;8.9;9.0;9.0a" "${CUDA_ARCHS}")
  # subtract out the archs that are already built for 3x
  list(REMOVE_ITEM SCALED_MM_2X_ARCHS ${SCALED_MM_3X_ARCHS})
  if (SCALED_MM_2X_ARCHS)
    set(SRCS "csrc/quantization/cutlass_w8a8/scaled_mm_c2x.cu")
    set_gencode_flags_for_srcs(
      SRCS "${SRCS}"
      CUDA_ARCHS "${SCALED_MM_2X_ARCHS}")
    list(APPEND VLLM_EXT_SRC "${SRCS}")
    list(APPEND VLLM_GPU_FLAGS "-DENABLE_SCALED_MM_C2X=1")
    message(STATUS "Building scaled_mm_c2x for archs: ${SCALED_MM_2X_ARCHS}")
  else()
    message(STATUS "Not building scaled_mm_c2x as no compatible archs found "
                   "in CUDA target architectures (or archs are already built "

>                    "for 3x)")

Reviewer: ditto -- could you disambiguate these two? This message reads like it's reporting a potential problem but for this `(or archs are already built for 3x)`, it's the expected case
